# Subtitles element

**Type:** object

Defines a subtitles element, allowing you to add subtitles to the video. Subtitles can be automatically generated by transcribing the audio or provided via a URL to a subtitle file (SRT, VTT or ASS). You can customize the appearance of the subtitles using the `settings` property, including style, font, colors, position and more.

## Working with the Subtitles element

### Special considerations

The subtitles element works a bit differently than other elements:

* It can only be used in the Movie `elements` array, meaning that you cannot enable or disable it on a per-scene basis.
* You can't have multiple subtitles elements in a single movie
* It's always processed at the end of the rendering process once the movie is complete
* The automatic transcription "listens" to the audio track of the movie and transcribes it into text. If the voice is not clear, the transcription may not be accurate.

### Providing your own captions

If you provide the captions in the `captions` property, the voiceover will not be transcribed and the captions will be displayed instead.
The supported formats for the `captions` property are: SRT, VTT and ASS.

The word highlighting option is not available when providing your own captions unless your provide the captions in ASS format and the captions include the timing for each word.

### Manual review of the transcription

In some cases, you may want to manually review the transcription before finally publishing the movie.

To manually review the transcription:

1. Render the movie with the automatic transcription enabled.
2. Download the transcription file in ASS format. You will find a URL to file in the `GET /v2/movies` response object (`ass` property) along with the URL to the rendered movie.
3. Open the ASS file with a text editor and review the transcription.
4. Upload the edited ASS file to public server and get a URL to the file.
5. Render the movie again, this time providing the URL to the edited ASS file in the `captions` property.

## Properties

The following properties are required:
* `type`

### captions
Specifies the captions to be used as subtitles. This can be either a URL pointing to a subtitle file, or the actual subtitle content directly embedded as a string. Supported subtitle formats for URLs or inline subtitles are: SRT, VTT, and ASS. If this property is omitted, the subtitles will be automatically generated from the audio track of the video.

| | |
|---|---|
| **Type** | string |
| **Required** | No |

### comment
A field for adding descriptive notes or internal memos related to the subtitles element. This comment is for your reference and does not affect the rendering process.

| | |
|---|---|
| **Type** | string |
| **Required** | No |

### language
The language of the audio to be transcribed. Specify a supported language code (e.g., `en` for English, `es` for Spanish) to improve transcription accuracy. Use `auto` to enable automatic language detection by the API.

| | |
|---|---|
| **Type** | string |
| **Required** | No |
| **Default Value** | `auto` |
| **Enum Values** | `auto`, `en`, `bg`, `ca`, `cs`, `da`, `nl`, `en-AU`, `en-GB`, `en-NZ`, `en-IN`, `en-US`, `et`, `fr`, `fi`, `nl-BE`, `de`, `de-CH`, `el`, `hi`, `hi-Latn`, `hu`, `id`, `it`, `ja`, `ko`, `lv`, `lt`, `ms`, `no`, `pl`, `pt`, `pt-BR`, `ro`, `ru`, `sk`, `es`, `es-419`, `sv`, `th`, `tr`, `uk`, `vi`, `zh`, `zh-TW` |

### model
Specifies the transcription model to use when automatically generating subtitles from the audio. If a model is not specified, a default model will be used. Different models may offer varying levels of accuracy or support different languages.

| | |
|---|---|
| **Type** | string |
| **Required** | No |
| **Default Value** | `default` |
| **Enum Values** | `default`, `whisper` |

### settings
Settings to customize the appearance of the subtitles, including style, font, colors, positioning, and other visual attributes. These settings allow you to tailor the subtitles to match your video's aesthetics and improve readability. Available settings depend on the chosen `style`.

| | |
|---|---|
| **Type** | object |
| **Required** | No |
| **Default Value** | `{}` |

This object contains the following properties:
- **all-caps**: (boolean, optional) - Makes the subtitles uppercase.
    - Default: false
- **box-color**: (string, optional) - Color of the box behind the subtitles.
    - Default: #000000
- **font-family**: (string, optional) - Font family of the subtitles.
    - Default: Arial
- **font-size**: (integer, optional) - Font size of the subtitles.
- **font-url**: (string, optional) - URL to the font file (TTF format).
- **font-weight**: (string, optional) - Font weight.
- **keywords**: (array, optional) - Keywords to improve transcription accuracy.
- **line-color**: (string, optional) - Color of the rest of words in the sentence.
    - Default: #FFFFFF
- **max-words-per-line**: (integer, optional) - Maximum number of words per line.
    - Default: 4
- **outline-color**: (string, optional) - Outline color of the subtitles.
    - Default: #000000
- **outline-width**: (integer, optional) - Width of the outline.
    - Default: 0
- **position**: (string, optional) - Position of the subtitles.
    - Default: bottom-center
- **replace**: (object, optional) - Replaces words with the specified replacement.
- **shadow-color**: (string, optional) - Shadow color of the subtitles.
    - Default: #000000
- **shadow-offset**: (integer, optional) - Offset of the shadow.
    - Default: 0
- **style**: (string, optional) - Style of the subtitles.
    - Default: classic
- **word-color**: (string, optional) - Color of word that is being spoken.
    - Default: #FFFF00
- **x**: (integer, optional) - X coordinate.
    - Default: 0
- **y**: (integer, optional) - Y coordinate.
    - Default: 0

### type
This field specifies the element's type and must be set to `subtitles` for subtitles elements.

| | |
|---|---|
| **Type** | string |
| **Required** | Yes |
| **Enum Values** | `subtitles` |

## Examples

### Example 1: Adding subtitles

This example demonstrates a movie with a AI voiceover with automatic subtitles using a Google Font (Roboto 900).

```json
{
    "width": "1080",
	"height": "1920",
    "scenes": [
        {
            "elements": [
                {
                    "voice": "en-US-AmandaMultilingualNeural",
                    "extra-time": 2,
                    "model": "azure",
                    "text": "The five boxing wizards jump quickly across the hazy lawn.",
                    "type": "voice"
                },
                {
					"type": "subtitles",
					"language": "auto",
					"model": "default",
                    "settings": {
                        "max-words-per-line": 3,
                        "font-size": "80",
                        "all-caps": false,
                        "outline-color": "#FFFFFF",
                        "outline-width": 8,
                        "word-color": "#D22A1F",
                        "x": 540,
                        "y": 1470,
                        "font-family": "Roboto",
						"font-weight": "900",
                        "style": "classic",
                        "position": "custom",
                        "line-color": "#D22A1F"
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```
